# Lab 1
The goal of this project is to get used to development in Java (or refresh yourself) and to make sure that all of the course submission permissions are correct for you. 

## Objectives 
Here you are writing a basic class that dictionary encodes an ascii text file of strings. A dictionary coder, also sometimes known as a substitution coder, is a class of lossless data compression algorithms which operate by searching for matches between the text to be compressed and a set of strings contained in a data structure maintained by the encoder.

The projects in this class highlight Java concepts you may not be familiar with including:
 - Collections - maps/dictionaries, lists, etc (https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/collections/overview.html)
 - Writing code for test-driven development (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JUnit)
 - Running tests via ant
 - File I/O (https://www.tutorialspoint.com/java/java_files_io.htm) 

These concepts will be necessary for the assignments.

## Things to do
Make sure you have git, a Java 1.7+ JDK, and ant installed and running on your machine. We will be using githbub classrooms for all assignments in this course. The first thing you need to do is to accept the assignment ([https://classroom.github.com/a/gRmTQeSP]). Github will automatically create repository with a template for the homework in it. You will have to submit assignments through Github classrooms as well.

You are responsible for completing all of the code marked with //TODO. Here's how the assignment works at a high-level:
* You are given as CSV file with some data
* You are to write a data compression algorithm that compresses the file and stores that data to disk
* You are to write a decoding algorithm that decompresses that data and loads the data from disk
* The compression and decompression should be lossless.

If you do everything right, your initial implementation will actually not work as planned. And, you will have to figure out why.

## Deliverables
1. Fill in the 8 TODOs in DictionaryCoder.java
2. Answer the questions in WRITEUP.md

## Running Tests

SimpleDB (we'll see this in a few weeks) and Lab 1 use the [Ant build tool](http://ant.apache.org/) to compile the code and run tests.
Ant is similar to [make](http://www.gnu.org/software/make/manual/), but
the build file is written in XML and is somewhat better suited to Java code.
Most modern Linux distributions include Ant. 

You can see the output of your code by running:
```
$ cd [project-directory]
$ ant clean
$ ant
$ ant run
```

We've also provided some unit tests to help you along the way.  To run the unit tests use the `test` build target:

```
$ cd [project-directory]
$ # run all unit tests
$ ant test
$ # run a specific unit test
$ ant runtest -Dtest=TupleTest
```

You should see output similar to:

```
 build output...

test:
    [junit] Running uchidb.ContainersTest
    [junit] Testsuite: uchidb.ContainersTest
    [junit] Tests run: 2, Failures: 0, Errors: 2, Time elapsed: 0.037 sec
    [junit] Tests run: 2, Failures: 0, Errors: 2, Time elapsed: 0.037 sec

 ... stack traces and error reports ...
```

The output above indicates that two errors occurred during compilation; this
is because the code we have given you doesn't yet work.  As you complete
parts of the lab, you will work towards passing additional unit tests.

If you wish to write new unit tests as you code, they should be added to
the <tt>test/uchicdb</tt> directory.

<p>For more details about how to use Ant,
see the [manual](http://ant.apache.org/manual/). The
[Running Ant](http://ant.apache.org/manual/running.html) section
provides details about using the `ant` command. However, the quick
reference table below should be sufficient for working on the labs.

Command | Description
--- | ---
ant|Build the default target ( this is dist).
ant -projecthelp|List all the targets in `build.xml` with descriptions.
ant test|Compile and run all the unit tests.
ant runtest -Dtest=testname|Run the unit test named `testname`.


If you are under windows system and don't want to run ant tests from command line, you can also run them from eclipse. Right click build.xml, in the targets tab, you can see "runtest" "runsystest" etc. For example, select runtest would be equivalent to "ant runtest" from command line. 
Arguments such as "-Dtest=testname" can be specified in the "Main" Tab, "Arguments" textbox. Note that you can also create a shortcut to runtest
by copying from build.xml, modifying targets and arguments and renaming it to, say, runtest_build.xml.

### Working in Eclipse 

[Eclipse](http://www.eclipse.org) is a graphical software
development environment that you might be more comfortable with working in.
The instructions we provide were generated by using Eclipse 
for Java Developers (not the enterprise edition) with Java 1.6.0_20+ on Ubuntu 
16.04+ LTS.  They should also work under Windows or on MacOS. 


**Set Up for Eclipse**
*  git clone your repository
*  Install and run Eclipse 
*  File -> Import -> Projects From Git -> Local -> Then add the directory where you cloned your forked repo -> Finish
*  Next-> Import Existing Project
*    Click finish, and you should be able to see "uchidblab1" as a new project in the Project Explorer tab on the left-hand side of your screen. Opening this project reveals the directory structure discussed above - implementation code can be found in "src," and unit tests and system tests found in "test." 

**Running Individual Unit and System Tests**

To run a unit test or system test (both are JUnit tests, and can be
initialized the same way), go to the
Package Explorer tab on the left side of your screen.  Under the "uchidblab1"
project, open the "test" directory.  Unit tests are found in the "uchidb"
package.
To run one of these tests, select the test (they are all called *Test.java -
don't select TestUtil.java or SystemTestUtil.java), right click on it, select "Run As,"
and select "JUnit Test."  This will bring up a JUnit tab, which will tell you
the status of the individual tests within the JUnit test suite, and will show you
exceptions and other errors that will help you debug problems.


**Running Ant Build Targets**
If you want to run commands such as "ant test" or "ant systemtest,"
right click on build.xml in the Package Explorer.  Select "Run As,"
and then "Ant Build..." (note: select the option with the ellipsis (...), otherwise
you won't be presented with a set of build targets to run).  Then,
in the "Targets" tab of the next screen, check off the targets you want to
run (probably "dist" and one of "test" or "systemtest").  This should
run the build targets and show you the results in Eclipse's console window.

